# OSDL-ML
Machine learning training code for four top quark production search in opposite-sign dilepton channel

## Warning
Neural networks generated by code within this repository is trained using elmu and mumu data only, and new networks must be trained once elel and 2018 MC are available.

## Contents
- `OSDL_keras_*.py` is the Python script used to train the neural networks. The latest version is `v4`, and contains options to train with different training datasets, different activation functions (ReLU and tanh), and different sets of DeepJetB (using DeepJetB discriminator of four jets with highest pT or four highest DeepJetB discriminator). _The following documentation will be based on this version of the script._
- `OSDL_keras_v4_AUC.py` is the Python script used to calculate area under ROC curve for each network generated with `OSDL_keras_v4.py`.
- `pd_convert.py` converts the data in the form of ntuple into pandas dataframe for easier implementation. Also calculates `sphericity` variable for each event.
- `final_checks_v4.ipynb` is a Jupyter notebook containing code used to calculate variable ranking based on first-order Taylor's coefficients.

## Neural network structure
All neural networks will use the same architecture as follows:
- BatchNormalisation layer
- Dropout layer (with specified dropout probability, see below)
- 3 hidden layers with 50 neurons, using ReLU _or_ tanh activation function (see below)
- 1 output layer with sigmoid activation function

## Input variables
- pT of each lepton (1 variable × 2 leptons)
- Four highest jet pT in each event
- DeepJetB discriminator for each corresponding jet (unsorted) **or** four highest DeepJetB discriminator of jets in each event (sorted)
- `HT` (scalar sum of jet transverse momentum)
- `HTb` (HT except first two b-jets)
- `HTRat` (ratio of pT from first two b-jets over HT)
- `HTH` (ratio of HT over scalar sum of jet momentum)
- `nMediumDeepJetB` number of medium DeepJetB jets
- `nFTAJet` number of jets
- `sphericity` sphericity
- `isElMu` lepton decay channel indicator


## Usage
```bash
python3 OSDL_keras_v4.py <mode> <variant> <dropout>
```
- `mode` specifies network configuration mode.
    - 1: normal mode - using ReLU activation and unsorted DeepJetB
    - 2: tanh mode - using tanh activation and unsorted DeepJetB
    - 3: sorted mode - using ReLU activation and sorted DeepJetB
    - 4: sorted_tanh mode - using tanh activation and sorted DeepJetB
- `variant` specifies training dataset variant.
    - 1: train with combined (elmu + mumu) data
    - 2: train only with elmu data
    - 3: train only with mumu data
- `dropout` specifies dropout probability. (default value is 0.2)

```bash
python3 OSDL_keras_v4_AUC.py <model_path> <train_variant> <train_mode>
```
- `model_path` specifies path to the model in `.hdf5` file format.
- `train_variant` specifies training dataset variant.
    - 1: train with combined (elmu + mumu) data
    - 2: train only with elmu data
    - 3: train only with mumu data
- `train_mode` specifies network configuration mode.
    - 1: normal mode
    - 2: sorted mode **Differs from `OSDL_keras_v4.py`!**
    - 3: tanh mode **Differs from `OSDL_keras_v4.py`!**
    - 4: sorted_tanh mode

Both scripts can be run as batch jobs on lxplus.